# [_TownHunt iOS App_](https://github.com/alvin-martin-lee/TownHunt "TownHunt Code on GitHub")
The butterfly graffiti on the sidewalk, the birthplace of a great author and a stone nose hidden in a concrete wall – these are a few quirky locations that I didn’t know existed in my local area until recently. People, especially tourists, often fail to notice points of interests in areas that they visit. This is why I created TownHunt - a digital platform where interesting locations can be shared and discovered in an engaging way. 
At its core TownHunt is a location-based online scavenger hunt. The player has to move around a certain area (e.g. a park) to find ‘Pins’. Each pin has an associated clue that guides the player to a specific location. Once the user finds the location and enters information about the location then points are scored.
I wanted to create an ecosystem where users can share their favourite local points of interests with others. Therefore, the TownHunt app will allow users to create their own scavenger hunt games (known as 'Pin Packs') and upload them to an in-app ‘store’. In this store, other users are able to download these Pin Packs and play them on their devices. To facilitate this store system, users must create accounts.
Games can either be played in timed ‘competitive’ or untimed ‘casual’ mode. Either of these two modes can be used for a particular purpose. For example, during my school’s charity day, a Pin Pack was created based on locations in the school and TownHunt was loaded onto school iPod Touches. The Pin Pack was played in ‘competitive’ mode by students for a fee (proceeds went to charity). After the time ran out the score was uploaded to a leaderboard for the pack. Alternatively, ‘casual’ mode was used by The Mayflower Collection of hotels. They created a pack with nearby places (such as supermarkets) to get guests accustomed to local amenities. Seeing people use my application was a very gratifying experience.
In fact, I collaborated with the hotel chain in the development of the application. I conducted interviews to help determine the features needed in the application. The prototyping of TownHunt started during a Swift Development course at MIT (Cambridge, USA). Then I developed the back-end - setting up the MySQL database and programming the PHP bridge API that connects the iOS app to the database hosted on my website. The database stores all the Pin Pack and user information in several interlinked tables. Parameterised SQL queries are used to access this information.
